# MT7622 Linksys E8450/Belkin RT3200

### New Box UBI Conversion

* **IMPORTANT: *If* a device running stock 1.1.x firmware rejects the installer image, the recommended work-around is to downgrade the device to version 1.0.x, and then re-attempt uploading the installer image.  See "Downgrading Firmware" instructions below.**
* **IMPORTANT: Execute these steps on a brand new device running stock firmware ...or... just after performing a factory reset on the device.**

0. Download the two firmwares will need:
   - Recovery image: https://github.com/dangowrt/owrt-ubi-installer/releases/download/v1.0.3/openwrt-23.05.0-mediatek-mt7622-linksys_e8450-ubi-initramfs-recovery-installer.itb
   - SCaLE latest image: https://github.com/socallinuxexpo/scale-network/actions/workflows/openwrt-build.yml
   > You might need to signed recovery image but we have had any hardware that needs this to date
1. Connect any of the LAN ports of the device directly to the Ethernet port of your computer.
2. Set the IP address of your computer as `192.168.1.254` with netmask `255.255.255.0`, no gateway, no DNS.
3. Power on the device, wait about a minute for it to be ready.
4. Open a web browser, navigate to http://192.168.1.1 and wait for the wizard to come up.
5. Click *exactly* inside the radio button to confirm the terms and conditions, then abort the wizard. (Complete the wizard if you are running stock firmware version 1.2.x)
6. You should then be greeted by the login screen, the stock password is "admin".
7. Navigate to __Administration__ -> __Firmware Upgrade__.
8. Upload the firmware "installer" image
  * If running stock firmware < 1.2.00.273012, upload the **unsigned** image
  * Otherwise, when stock firmware is >= 1.2.00.273012, upload the **signed** image
9. Wait for a minute, the OpenWrt recovery image should come up.
9. Navigate to __System__ -> __Backup / Flash Firmware__.
10. Upload the SCaLE latest image: `openwrt-...-mediatek-mt7622-linksys_e8450-ubi-squashfs-sysupgrade.itb`.
12. The device will reboot, it will come up  on the mgmt vlan setup

### Upgrading our image

Immediately after `sysupgrade` the router will close all SSH connections. The power LED will flash, then go solid. The entire flash process is very quick, ~1 minute.

### UBI Force Recovery Mode

Use this section when you have another UBI image on the hardware and you need to get it to accept our image
by bruteforce.

ref: https://github.com/dangowrt/owrt-ubi-installer

SSH into the host:

```
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no root@192.168.1.1 "echo c > /proc/sysrq-trigger"
```
> This will immediately force a reboot

Copy over the UBI image youd like to flash

```
scp -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -O openwrt-mediatek-mt7622-linksys_e8450-ubi-squashfs-sysupgrade.itb root@192.168.1.1:/tmp/
```

ssh back into the host and force the upgrade:

```
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no root@192.168.1.1 "sysupgrade -n -v /tmp/openwrt-mediatek-mt7622-linksys_e8450-ubi-squashfs-sysupgrade.itb"
```
> This will immediately close all connection

You will see the following error after running `sysupgrade`, ignore it:

```
Mon Oct 23 09:11:32 UTC 2023 upgrade: Commencing upgrade. Closing all shell sessions.
Command failed: Connection failed
root@OpenWrt:/tmp# Connection to 192.168.1.1 closed by remote host.
Connection to 192.168.1.1 closed.
```

The hardware will still be running the old version of the firmware, you'll need to clear `PSTORE`:

```
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no root@192.168.1.1 "rm /sys/fs/pstore/* && reboot"
```

It will come up with the vlan for mgmt. Make sure you have an interface configured and firewall disabled for the local DHCP server.
Some have required a hard power reset if it doesnt come back after the initial reboot.
